---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-04-15T07:17:28.802Z'
dateModified: '2016-04-15T07:01:23.723Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-04-15-5db3d1cb-3d78-451b-932c-20b1786fb33e.md
published: true
url: 5db3d1cb-3d78-451b-932c-20b1786fb33e/index.html
_type: Article

---
"Riveting" (NYTimes) cellist, Sæunn Thorsteinsdóttir, has appeared as soloist with the Los Angeles Philharmonic, Toronto and Iceland Symphonies, among others, and her recital and chamber music performances have taken her across the US, Europe and Asia.

Following the release of her debut recording of Britten's Suites for Solo Cello on Centaur Records, she has performed in some of the world's greatest halls including Carnegie Hall, Suntory Hall and Disney Hall.

The press have described her as "charismatic" (NYTimes) and praised her performances for their "emotional intensity" (LATimes).

An avid chamber musician, she has collaborated in performance with Itzhak Perlman, Mitsuko Uchida, Richard Goode and members of the Emerson, Guarneri and Cavani Quartets and has participated in numerous chamber music festivals, including Prussia Cove and Marlboro, with whom she has toured. She is cellist of the Manhattan Piano Trio and a founding member of Decoda; a group that seeks to revitalize the world of chamber music through refreshing concert experiences, creative education, and community engagement.

Along with the masterpieces of the 18th, 19th and 20th century, Sæunn is constantly inspired by works composed in our time and enjoys working with living composers. In addition to working closely with Daníel Bjarnason on his award-winning composition "Bow to String", she has premiered dozens of works, including new pieces by Peter Schikele, Paul Schoenfield, Michel Galante and Jane Antonia Cornish.

Starting in the fall of 2015, Sæunn joins the faculty of the University of Washington in Seattle, teaching cello and chamber music.

From 2013-2015, Sæunn was Artist-in-Residence at the Green Music Center's Weill Hall in Sonoma, California, presenting concerts, masterclasses, lectures and informal discussions at Sonoma State University.

Sæunn has garnered numerous top prizes in international competitions, including the Naumburg Competition in New York and the Antonio Janigro Competition in Zagreb, Croatia. She received a Bachelor of Music from the Cleveland Institute of Music, a Master of Music from The Juilliard School and a Doctorate of Musical Arts from SUNY Stony Brook. Her principal teachers include Richard Aaron, Tanya L. Carey, Colin Carr and Joel Krosnick.

Sæunn was a fellow of Ensemble ACJW---The Academy, a program of Carnegie Hall, The Juilliard School, and the Weill Music Institute in partnership with the New York City Department of Education---performing chamber music at Carnegie Hall and bringing classical music to students in the New York City Public Schools.

Born in Reykjavik, Iceland, Sæunn first moved to the states as a child, however, she still has family in Iceland and enjoys going back, both for concerts and family visits.